Gideon Strange opened his eyes to dark and heat and the sound of his father weeping . He held very still , though the sobbing was neither new nor unexpected . His father often ended up in the corner - huddled as if his son 's bedroom were the world 's last good place - and Gideon thought about asking why , after all these years , his father was still so sad and weak and broken . It would be a simple question , and if his father were any kind of man , he 'd probably answer it . But Gideon knew what his father would say and so kept his head on the pillow and watched the dark corner until his father pulled himself up and crossed the room . For long minutes he stood silently , looking down ; then he touched Gideon 's hair and tried to whisper himself strong , saying , Please , God , please , then asking strength from his long-dead wife , so that Please , God turned into Help me , Julia . Holding still was the hardest part , not because his mother was dead and had no answer , but because Gideon knew that if he moved at all , his father might ask if he was awake or sad or equally lost . Then Gideon would have to tell the truth , not that he was any of those things , but that he was more lonesome inside than any boy his age should be . But his father did n't speak again . He ran fingers through his son 's hair and stood perfectly still as if whatever strength he sought might magically find him . Gideon knew that would never happen . He 'd seen pictures of his father before and had a few dim memories of a man who laughed and smiled and did n't drink most every hour of every day . For years he 'd thought that man might return , that it could still happen . But Gideon 's father wore his days like a faded suit , an empty man whose only passion rose from thoughts of his long-dead wife . The man touched his son 's hair a final time , then crossed the room and pulled the door shut . Gideon waited a minute before rolling out of bed , fully dressed . He was running on caffeine and adrenaline , trying hard to remember the last time he 'd slept or dreamed or thought of anything else besides what it would take to kill a man . Swallowing hard , he cracked the door , trying to ignore that his arms were skinny-white and his heart was running fast as a rabbit 's . He told himself that fourteen years was man enough , and that he did n't need to be any older to pull a trigger . God wanted boys to become men , after all , and Gideon was only doing what his father would do if his father were man enough to do it . Thirteen years had passed since his mother 's murder , then three weeks since Gideon had found his father 's small , black gun , and ten more days since he 'd figured out a 2:00 a.m. train would carry him to the gray , square prison on the far side of the county . Gideon knew kids who 'd hopped trains before . The key , they said , was to run fast and not think on how sharp and heavy those big , shiny wheels truly were . But Gideon worried he 'd jump and miss and go under . He had nightmares about it every night , a flash of light and dark , then pain so true he woke with an ache in the bones of his legs . But how to get to the gun when his father sat right in front of it ? Gideon should have done it differently , but his thoughts ran crooked sometimes . He did n't mean to be difficult . It just worked out that way , so that even the kind teachers suggested he think more about woodshop and metalworking than about the fancy words in all those great , heavy books . Standing in the dark , he thought maybe those teachers were right , after all , because without the gun he could n't shoot or protect himself or show God he had the will to do necessary things . After a minute , he closed the door , thinking , Two o'clock train ... But the clock already said 1:21. Then 1:30. Gideon waited five more minutes , then crept to the living room and stepped over engine parts and other bottles , tripping once as a car rumbled past and splashed light through a gap in the curtains . When it was dark again , he knelt behind the television , slipped off the back , and pulled out a gun that was black and slick and heavier than he remembered . He cracked the cylinder , checked the bullets . " Son ? " It was the small voice , the small man . Gideon stood and saw that his father was awake - a man-shaped hole in a stretch of stained upholstery . He seemed uncertain and afraid , and for a moment Gideon wanted to go back under the sheets . He could call everything off ; pretend none of this had ever happened . It would be nice , he thought , not to kill a man . He could put the gun down and go back to bed . He looked at them , again - baby 's breath and white roses , all of it pale and brittle - then imagined how the room would look if a stranger were looking down from above : the man with dead flowers , the boy with the gun . Gideon wanted to explain the power of that image - to make his father understand that the boy had to do what the father would not . Instead he turned and ran . For a second , Gideon hesitated , but when a train whistled in the west , he pushed the gun under the fence and scrambled over the top , tearing skin as he did and banging both knees when he landed wrong in the overgrown parking lot on the other side . The train 's whistle blew louder . He did n't have to do it . No one had to die . But that was the fear talking . His mother was dead , and her killer needed to pay . So he aimed for a gap between the burned-out furniture plant and the place that used to make thread but now had one whole side falling in . It was darker between the buildings , but even with loose bricks under his feet Gideon made it , without falling , to a hole in the fence near the big white oak in the far corner . The dirt was dry and loose going down . He slipped - scrabbling to keep the gun from falling out in the blackness - then splashed through a trickle of water and clambered up the other side to stand breathless in an alley of scrub that spread out from metal tracks that looked white against the dirt . He bent at the waist , cramping ; but the train rounded a bend and blasted light up the hill . It would have to slow , he thought . But it didn't. It hit the hill like the hill was nothing . Three engines and a wall of metal , it blew past as if it could strip the air from his lungs . He scrabbled at one car and then another , but the rungs were high and slick . He risked a glance and saw the last cars racing up behind him , twenty maybe , and then less . If he missed the train , he missed the prison . His fingers stretched , but he fell and smeared skin from his face , then ran and reached and felt a rung in his hand as agony burst in his shoulder and his feet thumped across wooden ties before the car , at last , was a shell around him . He 'd made it . He was on the train that would carry him off to kill a man , and the truth of that pressed down in the dark . It was n't talk anymore , or waiting or planning . The sun would rise in four hours . The bullets would be real bullets . He thought of sleepless nights and hunger ; and when the river glinted beneath him , he looked for the prison , seeing a bright light miles out across the valley floor . It raced closer , so he leaned out when the ground seemed flattest and least rocky . He looked for the strength to jump , but was still on the train as dirt flicked past and the prison sank like a ship in the dark . He was going to miss it , so he thought of his mother 's face instead , then stepped out and fell and hit the ground like a sack of rocks . When he woke , it was still dark , and though the stars looked dimmer , he had enough light to limp along the tracks until he found a road that led to a cluster of brown buildings he 'd seen once from the back of a moving car . There were no people or traffic , and when he turned to look south , he saw how the prison rose up in the distance . He looked at it for long minutes before slipping into the alley beside the bar and putting his back against a Dumpster that smelled like chicken wings and cigarettes and piss . He wanted to feel pleased for making it this far , but the gun looked wrong in his lap . He tried watching the road , but there was nothing to watch , so he closed his eyes and thought of a picnic they 'd had when he was very young . The picture taken that day was in a frame on his bedside table at home . He 'd worn yellow pants with big buttons and thought he might remember how his father held him high and spun him in a circle . He held on to the idea of that childhood , then imagined what it would feel like to kill the man who took it away . Hammer back . Gideon had imagined the same thing a thousand times on a thousand nights . His father was not man enough . He would not be man enough . Pressing the barrel against his forehead , he prayed for strength , then walked through it again . Hammer back . Arm straight . For an hour more he tried to steel himself , then threw up in the dark and hugged his ribs as if all heat in the world had been stolen , too.CHAPTER 2 Elizabeth should sleep - she knew as much - but the fatigue was more than physical . The weariness came from dead men and the questions that followed , from thirteen years of cop that looked to end badly . She played the movie in her mind : the missing girl and the basement , the bloody wire , and the pop , pop of the first two rounds . Four days had passed since the shooting , and the life that followed still felt foreign . Yesterday , a family of four stopped her on the sidewalk to thank her for making the world a better place . An hour later , somebody spit on the sleeve of her favorite jacket . Elizabeth lit a cigarette , thinking about how it all came down to where people stood . To those who had children , she was a hero . A girl was taken and bad men died . To a lot of people , that seemed about right . For those who distrusted the police on principle , Elizabeth was the proof of all that was wrong with authority . Two men died in a violent , brutal manner . Forget that they were pushers and kidnappers and rapists . They 'd died with eighteen bullets in them , and that , for some , was inexcusable . They used words such as torture and execution and police brutality . How many nightmares when it finally happened ? Even though the city was unchanged and the same people inhabited her life , it seemed harder each hour to hold on to the person she 'd been . Today was a perfect example . She 'd been in the car for seven hours , driving aimlessly across town and into the county , past the police station and her house , out beyond the prison and back . But , what else could she do ? Home was a vacuum . She could n't go to work . Pulling into a dark lot on the dangerous edge of downtown , she turned off the engine and listened to the sounds the city made . Music thumped from a club two blocks away . A fan belt squealed at the corner . Somewhere , there was laughter . After four years in uniform and nine with the gold shield , she knew every nuance of every rhythm . That seemed too harsh . Alien , maybe ? Unfamiliar ? She got out of the car and stood in the darkness as a distant streetlight flickered twice , then snapped and died . She made a slow turn , picturing every back alley and crooked street in a ten-block radius . She knew the crack houses and flophouses , the prostitutes and pushers , which street corners were likely to get you shot if you said the wrong thing or rolled up hot . Seven different people had been killed on this busted-up patch of broken city , and that was just in the past three years . She 'd been in darker places a thousand times , but it felt different without the badge . The moral authority mattered , as did the sense of belonging to something larger than oneself . It was n't fear , but nakedness might be a decent word . Elizabeth did n't have boyfriends or lady friends or hobbies . She was a cop . What would remain if she lost it ? Channing , she told herself . Channing would remain . That a girl she barely knew could matter so much was strange . But , she did . When Elizabeth felt dark or lost , she thought of the girl . Same thing when the world pressed in , or when Elizabeth considered the real chance that she could go to prison for what had happened in that cold , damp hole of a basement . Channing was alive , and as damaged as she was , she still had a chance at a full and normal life . A lot of victims could n't say that . Hell , Elizabeth knew cops that could n't say it , either . Grinding out the cigarette , Elizabeth bought a newspaper from a machine beside an empty diner . Back in the car , she spread the paper across the wheel and saw her own face staring back . " Two paragraphs in , it was pretty clear what the reporter thought . Even though the word alleged showed up more than once , so did phrases such as inexplicable brutality , unwarranted use of force , died in excruciating pain . After long years of positive press , the local paper , it seemed , had finally turned against her . Not that she could blame them , not with the protests and public outcry , not with the state police involved . The photograph they 'd chosen told the tale . Standing on the courthouse steps and peering down , she looked cold and aloof . It was the high cheekbones and deep eyes , the fair skin that looked gray in newsprint . " Angel of death . Jesus . " 
It would 've been the first part of May . I remember that mighty well . Spring has a special magic to it . Or spring did once upon a time , anyway . I remember that mighty well , too . But when the Big Bubble busted back in ' 29 , seems like it took half the magic in the world with it when it went . More than half , maybe . In the five years after that , we tried to get by on what was left . We did n't do such a great job of it , either . Other thing the Big Bubble took with it when it busted was half the work in the world . People who had things to sell all of a sudden had more of ' em than they knew what to do with . They tried to unload ' em on the other people , the ones who all of a sudden did n't have the money to buy ' em . It was a great big mess . Hell and breakfast , it 's still a great big mess now . And nobody but nobody has the first notion of how long it 'll go right on being a great big mess . Take a look at me , for instance . Not like I 'm anything special . You can find guys just like me in any town from San Diego to Boston . More of ' em in those big cities , matter of fact . But take a look at me anyhow . You may as well . I 'm right here in front of you , talkin ' your ear off . Jack Spivey , at your service . I know too well I 'm not extra handsome , but I 'm not what you 'd call homely , either . I was twenty-four that May , on account of I was born in February of 1910 . Old enough to know better , you 'd think . Well , I would 've thought so , too . I did n't have two quarters to jingle in my pocket . Yeah , plenty like me , Lord knows . Too damn many like me . I was n't thinking about much of anything , if you want to know the truth . Maybe wondering how come the leaves on the trees did n't seem so bright as they had before the bustup , and why the grass looked to be a duller green . Your hotshot wizards , they 'll tell you things have n't really changed . They 'll tell you it 's all in your head . What I 'll tell you is , your hotshot wizards were n't walking down Spruce with me that morning . The flour mill took up a whole block of Spruce . The mill got built a year before things went to the dogs . Timing , huh ? It had n't run flat-out since . It did still run , though . I 'll give it that much . Some were - but not all of ' em . Sure , I 'll tell you what I mean . While I walked by there , a man was rolling a big old barrel of flour to a truck . Only he was n't a man . He was a zombie . His face was as gray as the slacks I had on , and just about as shabby looking . No , he was n't rolling the barrel very goddamn fast . To tell you the truth , he was rolling it like he had all the time in the world . If you 're a zombie , you do , or you might as well . But how much do you reckon the rich folks who run the mill were paying him ? Right the first time , friend . Zombies work for nothing , and you ca n't get cheaper than that . Back when times were good , a colored fella or a sober Injun if they could find one would 've been rolling that barrel . Now they had colored fellas and Injuns working inside the mill . They never would have before , let me tell you . They pay ' em a little something , but not much . And some of the white guys who would 've earned more , they were out on the street without any silver to jingle in their pockets and scare the werewolves away , just like me. Difference between them and me was , I knew how to go about it . I 'd been scuffling , doing a little of this , a little of that , a little of the other thing , since before I had to shave . Those guys , they thought they had a job for life . They did n't know what the devil to do with themselves after it got taken away . Some of them drank at the saloons across the street from the mill . Anything stronger than 3.2 beer is against the law in Oklahoma . Now they were in there at all hours - when they could afford to buy anything , I mean . Just past the saloons were a couple of pool rooms and a sporting house . The house had to let girls go . That 's how bad things were . It does n't get any worse , now does it ? I walked into one of the pool halls . A couple of guys were shooting slow , careful eight-ball at a front table . They looked over when the bell above the door jingled , but they relaxed as soon as they saw it was me . It 's not like I was somebody they had n't seen plenty of times before . Arnie , the guy who ran the joint , he 'd seen me plenty of times , too . He hardly moved his eyes up from the vampire pulp he was reading . " How you doing ? " he asked me . His voice had more expression than a zombie 's , but not a lot more . Most of the time , he did n't talk to me at all . When he did , sometimes it was business . " I 'm here , " I answered . " What 's cooking ? " Arnie knew people . He heard things . Like now . " I hear Big Stu 's been asking after you , " he said . " Has he ? " I said . " Obliged . " I touched the brim of my cap - cloth cap , not ball cap . Then I turned around and walked out . As soon as I got back on the street , the grass looked greener and the new leaves looked , well , leafier . I 'm not saying they were , but they looked that way . To me , they did . You did n't get nice work from Big Stu . Some people would n't call it work at all . They 'd call it burglary or battery or some such name - but Big Stu paid off those people . And he paid the people who did things for him . He paid them good . You ca n't be too fussy , not since the Bubble busted you can't. Big Stu ran a diner on Independence , near the artists ' gallery . You came in from out of town , you could get the best beef stew between Tulsa and the Texas line . The barbecue was tasty , too . You could get other kinds of things at Big Stu 's diner , but you had to know what to ask for and how to ask for it . You also had to know nothing from Big Stu ever came for free . Oh , yeah . You had to know that real good . They hunkered down , tried to do without , as much as they could . So did most of the folks who lived in town . I know I did , and I still do - I have to . I bet you 're the same way . These days , who is n't ? So Big Stu 's joint was like the pool hall near the mill . It had some people in it , yeah , but it was n't what you 'd call jumping . Big Stu worried about it less than Arnie did , though , ' cause he had the other stuff cooking on the side . The waitress was n't too busy to nod at me . " Hey , Jack . What do you know ? " she said . " I 'm okay , Lil . How about you ? " I answered . Lil 's about the age my ma would be if she was alive . When the sun streamed in through the big front window and caught her wrong , it was worse'n if she did n't bother . But she had a kind heart , no matter she worked for Big Stu . She set a cup of coffee and a small bowl of stew on the counter . " Eat up , " she said , even though she knew I could n't pay for ' em . " He 'll still be in the back when you get done . " " Thank you kindly " was all I had time for before I dug in . Big Stu 's did make a hell of a beef stew . The bowl was empty - the coffee cup , too - way quicker than he could 've got grouchy waiting . I touched the brim of my cap to Lil and went into the back room . You could hold wedding dinners there , or Odd Fellows wingdings - or poker parties or dice games . .. except for Big Stu . They did n't call him that on account of he was tall . He had to look up at me , and I 'm five-ten : about as ordinary as you get . They called him that because he was wide . His double chin had a double chin . His belly hung over his belt so far , you could n't see the buckle . Somebody who ate that good five years after the Bubble popped , you knew he had a bunch of irons in the fire . I touched my cap to him , too . One of his sausage-y fingers moved toward the brim of his fedora , but did n't quite get there before his hand dropped again . " Heard you were lookin ' for me , " I said . Big Stu , he never fancied wasting time on small talk . " That 's right . " All his chins wobbled when he nodded . " You 're headin ' up to Ponca City in a coupla days , are n't you ? " Back in those days , I played center for the Enid Eagles . Nobody gets rich playing semipro ball - it 's a lot more semi than pro . But it was one more way to help fill in the cracks , if you know what I mean . Ponca City 's an oil town , which is how come their team got the name it did . " Okey-doke , " Big Stu said . " Something you can take care of for me while you 're there . Worth fifty bucks if you do it right . " " Who do I have to kill ? " Oh , I was kidding , but I was n't kidding awful hard . You can live for a month on fifty bucks . A couple of months if you really watch it . " Not kill . Just send a message - send it loud and clear . You know Charlie Carstairs ? " " I know who he is . " " That 's good . That 's better'n good , in fact . Would n't want you for this if you were his buddy . I did somethin ' for him - never mind what - and now he wo n't give me what he owes . So what I want is , I want you to rough up his kid brother in Ponca City . " Big Stu scowled . " I had to put out a geas to find he had a brother there at all . But I did it . " He looked proud of himself then , like a moss-covered snapping turtle soaking up sun on a rock . " You never sent me out for strongarm stuff before , " I said slowly , which was ... close to true , anyway . He looked at me . He looked into me . He could see more dark places inside my head than even I knew were there . " Hell , Jack , a hundred bucks . " I was still pretty green some ways . I did n't know I was dickering . He did , or figured he did , which amounted to the same thing . And when he came out with a hundred bucks , why , my conscience spread its wings and flew away . " You 're on , " I heard myself say . " What 's his name ? Where do I find him ? " Big Stu did n't so much as smile . In his way , he was good . " He lives in a boarding house on Palm Street , not far from the city swimming pool . His name 's Mitch . " He reached into an inside jacket pocket and pulled out a scrap of paper . He held it out for me to take . " Here 's the address . " I had to unfold it . The pencil scrawl read 527 Palm 13 . I said . " Lucky for you , " he answered . " He opens the door , you clobber him good before he knows what 's what . Then go to town from there . And then head on over to Conoco Ball Park and get yourself a coupla the other kind of hits . " He laughed . Well , so did I. I 'm not what you 'd call proud to admit it , but I did . " I 'll do that . " Big Stu reached into a different pocket , the one where his billfold lived . He handed me a sawbuck . " Here . Down payment , like . Buy yourself some groceries so Lil do n't ruin my business trying to fatten you up . " How did he know ? Part of his business was knowing things . The door to the back room was shut till I walked through it . So what ? He knew anyhow . I got out of there . Heavy as blood , maybe . What else was it but blood money ? Then I went back to the saloons by the flour mill . No , not to drink up my dividend . I like it fine , thank you , but I hold the bottle . It does n't hold me . I was looking for some of the other Eagles , to let ' em know I 'd be going over to Ponca City a day early by my lonesome. Second place I stuck my nose into , there was Ace McGinty , our number two pitcher . He had two , three empty schooners in front of him , and a full one . You got to work to get plastered on 3.2 beer . Ace , he was working . I told him what I needed to tell him . A slow grin spread across his face . " She must be pretty , " he said , and breathed fumes into my face . His hands shaped an hourglass in the air between us. I told a few lies - you know the kind I mean . That grin got wider on his country-boy mug . He smelled like a brewery . I think he 'd be our ace for real if he did n't drink so much . I had to hope he 'd recall my news . A blue jay on the chain-link fence around the mill screeched at me when I came out . Behind the fence , that damn zombie - or maybe it was another one ; I do n't know - was rolling a barrel of flour to a truck . He was n't going real fast , but he was going . He 'd keep going all night long , too . Why not ? It was n't like he 'd get tired . Or hungry . I was getting hungry . Back at the shack I had half a loaf of bread going stale and some beans I could boil up . I 'll never make a cook , not if I live to be a hundred . I do n't know if the barbecue is as good as the stew , but it 's plenty good enough . " Live here , do you ? " Lil said . I kind of grunted and let that one alone . It 's one of those jokes that would be funny if only it were funny , you know ? Big Stu 's was an awful lot nicer than were I did live . If it had a bed , I wouldn't 've half minded staying there all the time . Then he could 've found even more ways to land me in trouble . I ate up the barbecue . Since I had that ten-spot and the promise of more , I ate a slice of apple pie with cheese on top , too . I left Lil a dime for a tip - when I 've got money , nobody can call me a cheapskate . By that time , it was getting dark outside . .. I know you 've heard the old chestnut . You want to know what I think , that 's a pile of crap , too . If somebody 'd burned down the shack I lived in , he would 've done me a favor . It was on the outskirts of Enid , where the town turns into farm country without quite knowing it 's doing that . My pa , he lit out for California year before last . A carpet came by heading west , he hopped on , and he was out of there . He took all the money in the place , too . Seven dollars and some-odd cents , I think it was . Ca n't say I miss him much . We did n't get along while he was here , which is putting it mildly . No note or anything to tell me where he 'd gone - he does n't have his letters . The old lady across the street let me know the next day . Hell , if I had been I might 've gone with him . Then this 'd be a different story . I ca n't say how , but different for sure . It 'd be a different story if my ma were still around , too . I just barely remember her . I was five , I guess , and I was all excited on account of I was gon na have a new baby brother or sister . He would 've been a brother if he 'd lived . That 's what Pa told me . Only he did n't , and neither did Ma. So it was Pa and me , and then it was only me . I went back to the place to sleep , and to eat when I could n't afford Big Stu 's or one of the other joints , and that was about it . Some guys on their own make pretty fair housekeepers . Not me . Pa used to say I could burn water when I boiled it . When I got inside , I lit a kerosene lantern . That let me find my beat-up old cardboard suitcase . It 's longer and thinner than most , so it 'll hold a couple-three bats . I put them in - two Louisville Sluggers , one Adirondack - and my spikes and my glove , and the gray flannel uniform with ENID EAGLES across the shirtfront in red fancy letters . Then I put in some ordinary clothes , too . And , since I was supposed to send this Mitch Carstairs a message , I dropped a blackjack and some brass knucks into the suitcase . Big Stu 's plan looked pretty good to me - get in the first lick and make it count . They 'd help . Where 'd I get ' em ? You do things for Big Stu , you get stuff like that , just in case . I had n't used ' em much before , but I had ' em . She 's deaf as a brick . She had power in her house , though . We never did . If we had , they would 've shut it off ' cause we could n't pay the bill . 
The body floated stubbornly in The Little Piney Creek , one and four tenths miles of graded dirt almost due south on Poe County Road 615 from my place , what used to be the Old Duncan Place . I had stopped my morning constitutional on the rusted iron bridge when I heard a hawk 's plaintive screech . A familiar red tail settled atop a loblolly like a drop of brown paint on the tip of a bristle brush and cocked an eye at the water below him . A fish rose against the creek 's green face and snapped at a bug . My eye followed this , natural , series of events - the hawk looking down for food , the fish rising up for food - until I saw the body floating like a boat that was swamped but would n't sink . It was late August . Summer had been nothing but a long drought so the creek was running low and heated piss-warm in the shallows . Under this suspended shroud , on the north side of the creek , the body was lodged between a downed tree and the red clay bank , partially obscured by leaves , but unmistakably a big man in a red shirt and blue jeans . " Oh shit , " I said when I saw him there . Steered into the angle created by the shoreline and the fallen tree , the body was wreathed in leaves that flipped lightside to darkside in the pulse of eddied water . The skull bounced rhythmically between bark and bank . The dead man 's back heaved like he was learning his first hard lesson of breathing water . I threw up over the steel rail of the bridge . m. About as good a time as any . Around the foundation of the bridge , riprap reposed at a steep angle . I tugged the laces tighter on my pricey new walking shoes and started down , slipped on the loose , sharp shards of crushed granite and only barely regained my footing on a shoreline narrow and slick as a side of cheap bacon . It was only five yards downstream from that spot to the dead man , but I dawdled . It would be misleading to say that I stopped to " pray " per se , and so imply the possession of a spiritual faculty I do not , in fact , possess . But in my stop position it would be fair to say that I " waited with hope . " But as I reached over the downed tree and pushed a shaky hand against the dead man 's shoulder , the rough bark of the white oak reminded me that this particular peculiar circumstance was real and not imagined . A cottonmouth loosed itself from a tangle of downed tree limbs on the opposite side of the creek and began to slither across the surface of the creek in that menacing way that watersnakes have that defies gravity and logic and in that way terrifies sensible , Christian people in order to remind them of Edenic Reality . I watched the snake cross the creek , his arrowhead swimming side to side , like a pocket watch swinging on a golden chain gone green , mesmerizing . The pollen was so thick on the creek 's face that the serpent 's trail was as visible as a deer track through the woods . He must have been over six feet long . The same length as the dead man in the river , more or less . " This is some shit , is n't it ? " I asked the dead man . The dead man nodded , agreeing with me or with some conversational creature sunk in the mud a couple of feet below his face , his guide to the other side maybe . I pushed him slightly . The corpse was , I suppose , what is called a " floater " so he bobbed like a bottom-weighted buoy from the pressure I had applied to him . My stomach roiled and I swallowed some corn liquor bile , took ten deep breaths and " centered " myself . My anxiety , however , did not return to its normal , free-floating level , even after ten deep breaths . I cracked back a few branches of the downed tree and touched a fingerend to the bruised depression at the base of his skull . That bruise did not look good to me . In fact , it looked like a factor that would compound the problem . I patted the back pockets of his blue jeans and found a couple of packaged condoms - XXL size - and a bullet about as long as my little finger . No gun nearby , though , not on the bank and not in the mud of the shallow water I filtered through my fingers . I stuck the unfired cartridge in the pocket of my short pants along with the Trojans. I searched all the pockets of the dead man , pants and shirt , and found he had no wallet on him , no car keys . But looped on his leather belt was a large leather knife scabbard , empty but with the word , or name , " Buck " stamped on it . Buck " was a heavy bastard and , small as I am , it took all my strength to drag him out of the creek and when I had his body beached I was gasping at the air and my walking shoes and short pants were filthy with wet , red clay , my arms and hands covered to the elbows with mud and what I suppose was corpse slime . The dead man 's head rested between my knees , face in the red clay of the creekside . When I pushed him off , Buck fell on his back and his whole body seemed to exhale a malodorous fart . I am not a doctor , a mortician or a policeman in any conventional understandings of those jobs . I was just a dyspeptic poet with a little family money . So I did not hazard a guess as to the cause or causes of the dead man 's death . Though that big bruise on the back of his head did not , as said , look good . Hair was thick even on his neck and arms . There was a delicate gold wedding band depended on a thick gold link chain around Buck 's neck . There was no inscription on the outside or inside of the ring , which was so thin there probably was n't room for an inscription . The ring certainly could fit no finger of this big man , dead or alive . I unclasped the chain and put it around my own neck , just for safekeeping . Buck 's eyelids were gone . Where his eyeballs had been were but black holes , though these spaces in his face seemed still , somehow , expressive ; not so much expressing a particular emotion - of desire or loss , pain or joy - but as only empty vessels now waiting to be filled . I swatted away the crawdads clinging to what was left of his lips and earlobes. Buck 's exposed teeth were scary like a Halloween mask is scary - that is , so scary they did not even seem real . I looked away from the dead man and leaned back . The sky had been made jigsaw by interlocking trees branches . I put a few blue pieces together then turned back to the dead man . He was still dead as a doorknob . And nobody to me , I decided . No one important to me at all . I wanted to run away from the dead man in The Little Piney , but I 'm not much of a runner . So I pulled him ashore and started another series of events , which is all history is really , mine and everybody 's , just one damned thing after another . I waited for a spell , waited for somethinganything else to happen . So ... No one appeared . Nothing helpful happened . I 'd spent much of the day before at my most local bar , in nearby Bertrandville . By early afternoon the day before I had been more than mildly drunk as is my regular wont . So there were plenty of witnesses to my whereabouts that day before . And during the early phase of my most recent bar-drunk , I had even written poems on paper napkins and distributed them liberally to my fellow patrons of the Crow 's Nest Saloon and Grill . The rest of the evening , after I fed my chickens and until dawn , was spent at home , returned inside my cups again watching videotapes of Columbo and Rockford Files . Hence , the day before I 'd have probably missed anybody driving down County Road 615 from ten a.m. on . Which meant that if my dead man in the creek , Buck , had come by my place the day before , I would not have seen hide nor hair of him . Buck had slipped , bumped his head and drowned . That seemed a satisfactory scenario . Happened all the time . But where were his beer bottles ? Where was his fishing tackle ? His wallet and ID ? His big hunting knife ? The gun that went along with the bullet ? Most of all where was his vehicle ? " You should n't be out here , " I told the corpse . How did you get here of all places ? Because I had never , in ten months and twenty-one days of local residence , seen a stranger at that spot on The Little Piney . That part of The Land o ' Opportunity was just not someplace tourists wound up in , accidentally or on purpose . And it was no place in the world you could get to without a car or truck , a mule or a pair of willing feet in sensible walking shoes . Only a few Locals ever went to that spot on The Little Piney and only me and one other fella ever walked down here . Buck was not a Local that I knew of and he did not seem to me to be the type of fella to walk much of anywhere in his snakeskin cowboy boots . He also did not seem like a tourist - he seemed like a well-heeled hillbilly who would know his way around a creekside , drunk or not . So it was hard to explain how , or why , Buck had gotten himself there dead in The Little Piney of all places . I shrugged even though there was nobody to see me do it . I have these habits of action , because , in general , I am as lonely as Adam before Eve appeared - living underneath a God who thinks of me as only a hobby of His , but in a Garden , more or less , of Plenty . Thinking of Eden 's Garden made me hungry for Miss Ollie 's diner . I was missing my breakfast at EAT Cafe spending time with this dead Buck . I tore a small branch off the water-soaked white oak , knelt beside the corpse , covered the dead man 's face with the oak leaves , looked again at him . On the inside of his right forearm was a crude tattoo of eagles rampant , the Stars and Stripes , the Marine Corps motto . Semper Fidelis. " If you say so , Buck , " I suggested as an encomium. I started up the bank . Brush rustled under the trees on the opposite shore . " Hello ? " " Hello ! " I hailed a shadow . I looked past the bridge toward a weedy twenty acres or so that was outlined by ten-foot-tall chain-link fencing decorated with loops of concertina wire and NO TRESPASSING and DANGER : NO OPEN BURNING signs . A stone house was tucked in one corner of the untended spread . But no one lived there . Mine was the last inhabited place going in that direction for several miles past The Little Piney . Beyond which was nothing but a very bad , two-track road , deer trails and kudzu cloaked , dense-to-black forest , hardwood and softwood crowded thick and currently dried out as stacked , seasoned cordwood ready for a fire . " Malcolm ? Reverend Pickens ? Isaac ? Newton ? Jacob ? " I named almost all the inhabitants of our isolated little hollow . None of them answered me. But someone was watching me. This is not an unusual feeling for me to have . At times I believe God is taking a too-keen interest in my simple affairs , intruding into my complicated thoughts like a bookmark stuck over and over again , willy-nilly in the pages of my life 's odyssey , my crazy story . But this was different because there was really someone there , on the other side of the creek , hiding in the bushes , watching me. I did n't waste any more time trying to find out who , if anyone , was there spying on me from the other side of The Little Piney . It was probably someone , or something I did n't want to know or even know about . Out of habit I stopped at my bullet-riddled mailbox . It was open , but empty , as per usual . Snow , rain , heat of day , gloom , etc. , apparently did not dissuade local government employees of USPS from their appointed rounds , but delivering dividend statements to a nonLocal did . The Locals had their own special reasoning about life and its operating procedures that I did n't even try to understand . A black widow spider had constructed an elaborate web in the mailbox , which was but a metal box with a hinged lid on it , a lid that could be shut tight at any time . Still , she sat centered in her ignorance , waiting , doing her thing . If I closed the lid on the box , the spider would die . But I left the mailbox open because I admire patience and can appreciate making an innocent mistake as much as the next guy . Sometimes we set ourselves down in trouble through no fault of our own and only survive it because a god does n't shut down the lid on our little box and cut off our life supplies . A blister bloomed on my left heel . I had paid a lot of money for my walking shoes , but they still did not fit me. I do n't have a phone for two reasons - either they ring or else they do n't ring . They 're bothersome to me either way , so I do n't have one . Except for a couple of distant relations who are waiting impatiently for me to die , my neighborhood friend Malcolm and my stockbrokers and money managers in Fargo and Houston and elsewhere , nobody cares in the least where I 'm at or what I 'm doing there . Most people need a phone , for emergencies if nothing else . But I did n't have any emergencies left in my life . 
